# Part 1

Perform some background research & answer the following questions:

1. In the notes of Week 1, we compared & contrasted MLOps with DevOps. In this question, you need to understand what is meant by the term ***AIOps***, & then contrast it with MLOps.

***AIOps***, sometimes referred to as ***Artificial Intelligence for IT Operations*** or ***Algorithmic IT Operations*** is a term invented by Gartner in 2016 as an industry category for Machine Learning analytics technology that enhances IT operations analytics.
AIOps platforms utilize big data, modern machine learning and other advanced analytics technologies to directly and indirectly enhance IT operations (monitoring, automation and service desk) functions with proactive, personal and dynamic insight. AIOps platforms enable the concurrent use of multiple data sources, data collection methods, analytical (real-time and deep) technologies, and presentation technologies.AIOps' ultimate goal is enhancing IT operations. The central process in AIOps is the intelligent filtering of signals our of the noise in IT systems.AIOps is an approach to use machine intelligence to solve this problem by collecting, processing, and observing intelligently IT operations data in order to identify root causes and propose solutions fast. In some cases, AIOps have the capability to solve problems without human intervention.

The term ***‘AIOps’*** is often used interchangeably with ***‘MLOps,’*** which is quite incorrect.

AIOps is all about supporting and reacting to its issues in real-time and providing analytics to your operations teams. These functions include performance monitoring, event analysis, correlation, and IT automation. According to Gartner, AIOps combines big data and machine learning to automate IT operations processes. Therefore, the end goal of AIOps is to automatically spot issues in day-to-day IT operations and proactively react to them using Artificial Intelligence. In fact, research shows that ***21% of organizations are planning to adopt AIOps within a year!***
MLOps, on the other hand, focuses on managing training and testing data that is needed to create machine learning models effectively. It is all about monitoring and management of ML models. It focuses on the Machine Learning operationalization pipeline. AIOps is all about applying cognitive computing techniques to improve IT operations, but it is not to be confused with MLOps.
Compared to MLOps, AIOps is a narrower practice that automates IT functions using machine learning. The goal of MLOps is to bridge the gap between operation teams and data scientists, and consequently between the execution and development of ML models. In contrast, the focus of AIOps is smart analysis of root causes and automated management of IT incidents.AIOps refers to the application of machine learning and artificial intelligence to IT operations to streamline repetitive tasks. MLOps, on the other hand, refers to the application of IT operations and DevOps practices in machine learning workflows.
